Our theme for this month's broadcast is sincere
commendation is always appropriate.
One definition of commendation is the act of praising
or approving of someone.
And when it is given in a sincere, genuine way,
how encouraging it can be to the one receiving it.
That makes us think of Proverbs 15, 23,
which says, a word spoken at the right time,
how good it is.
Similarly, Proverbs 12, 25 talks about how anxiety
can weigh a person's heart down,
but then says, but a good word cheers it up.
A 19th century author gested,
I can live for two months on a good compliment.
But now, keeping our theme in mind,
let us talk about Jehovah and Jesus.
Can you imagine how much Jehovah must have appreciated
His only begotten Son whom we have come to know is Jesus?
Jesus had faithfully supported His Father
for eons of time.
But then when He learned of Jehovah's purpose
to buy back the hope of everlasting life
for imperfect humans, what did Jesus do?
Did He make excuses as to why He could not leave heaven
and come to the earth?
Father, I have many projects going on
and I have my friends here in heaven.
And besides, I would miss being with you.
I just don't have the right circumstances.
Furthermore, this will be a very difficult, painful,
humiliating assignment.
It seems like this is a good assignment for Gabriel.
No, Jesus did not even slightly reason this way.
He willingly made sacrifices that cost Him dearly.
He changed life forms, going from a majestic spirit creature
to a little baby completely dependent on His parents.
Later, as a perfect child,
He remained fully in subjection to imperfect parents.
Then, as an adult, He worked His heart out
in starting a preaching campaign that continues
to this very day.
You wonder how many pairs of sandals He may have worn out
during His three and a half year ministry.
Then, He died an agonizing death on a torture stake
in order to provide a corresponding ransom
according to Jehovah's purpose.
He contributed His very life to support the work
that Jehovah wanted accomplished at that time.
Undoubtedly, you recall the video that was shown
during the final talk of last year's regional convention.
It helped us better appreciate what Jesus did for us.
By His selfless act, He opened the way for everlasting life,
whether in heaven or on earth.
But now the question is,
did Jehovah appreciate all that His Son did to support Him,
sanctifying His name and vindicating His sovereignty?
Absolutely. We know He did.
Imagine Jesus waste deep in the Jordan River.
His hair still dripping from His baptism.
He looks up and in some way sees the heavens open up
and God's Spirit descend like a dove and come upon Him.
Then, He hears Jehovah's own voice from Heaven say,
this is my Son, the beloved whom I have approved.
If we think about it,
Jehovah packed a lot of commendation into that one sentence.
This is my Son.
Jehovah, in effect, was saying,
son, I am proud to be your father, the beloved.
Jehovah was saying, I love you, son,
whom I have approved.
Jehovah was saying, I am very happy, son,
with what you have done thus far.
And I know I'm going to be very happy with what you will yet do.
Can you imagine how good all of that commendation made Jesus feel?
Yes, Jehovah appreciated all of the sacrifices Jesus had made
to support what He wanted accomplished
and He expressed His appreciation.
Jesus, being the exact reflection of His Father,
was also a perfect example of one who commended others.
As recorded at Luke 22, 28, and 29,
do you remember what Jesus said to His faithful 11 apostles
on the last night of his life as a human?
You are the ones who have stuck with me in my trials.
And I make a covenant with you for a kingdom.
Warm commendation indeed.
Consider another example.
Although Jesus provided constructive counsel to several congregations,
He also warmly commended them.
Notice what He said to the congregation in Thyatira at Revelation 2, verse 19.
In verse 19, Jesus said,
I know your deeds and your love and faith and ministry and endurance
and that your deeds of light are more than those you did at first.
Such detailed, thoughtful commendation likely move the congregation
to continue making similar progress thereafter.
Well, now we have talked about the two best examples in the universe
of ones who are generous with commendation,
Jehovah and Jesus.
But now, what about us?
Ephesians 5.1 urges us to become imitators of God.
And our convention theme this past year was imitate Jesus.
And this counsel also applies to the governing body.
The governing body would like to follow Jehovah's and Jesus' good example
by providing warm commendation to you, dear brothers and sisters.
So many of you are so responsive to any suggestions or appeals made to you
by the faithful and discreet slave.
In the May 2015 monthly program,
we shared our interest in expediting the construction of new Kingdom halls
and remote translation offices.
And we explained some of the financial challenges we were facing
in being able to do so.
We discerned that contributions immediately went up by more than 15%
for the months of June and July.
We thank you very much.
Not only are older ones in Jehovah's organization responding with generosity,
the governing body has been deeply touched by the response of many young ones.
It's just one example.
I personally received a precious letter, dear brother Latt.
Hello, I am 13 years old.
The reason I wrote this letter is because of the May J. W. Broadcasting.
I was motivated to contribute to the worldwide work.
I have been saving up and my relatives gave me some money.
I hope it helps.
I also want to thank you and the other governing body members for the Korean J. W. Broadcasting.
Now, my whole family can understand much more and benefit from it.
My whole family wants to appreciate all of this.
Please tell the other governing body members also.
And then she drew a smiley face.
So because you motivated me in financial ways, I was also motivated in spiritual ways.
I am doing auxiliary pioneering during summer break.
One more time.
My family and I want to say thank you.
And then she drew a big red heart at the end of her letter.
Well, I sent the check to the Treasures office, but I'm definitely keeping her touching letter and her adorable picture.
Comments such as these have moved us to want to use this January 2016 broadcast program to thank you from the bottom of our hearts for your support.
And also to update you on what has happened since last May.
So many good things are happening.
So we ask, what has been accomplished in the past eight months?
Well, we continue to finance the weekly cost to feed and house the more than 25,000 Bethel family members worldwide and to help support over 55,000 others in special full-time service.
We have been able to continue to fund the huge construction project of building the World Headquarters Facility in Warwick, New York.
Additionally, large branch construction and renovation projects that were underway are being supported.
And around the world, considerable audio and video equipment has been purchased to show the entire program of our imitate Jesus convention on big screens or monitors.
Seeing the participants up close, pose our attention and enhances the learning experience.
You may not realize it, but there were 52 videos and almost 30 other audio and visual aids presented during this convention, making a total of some 80 presentations for our enjoyment.
In addition to all of the foregoing, in the past eight months, over 2,000 Kingdom Halls have been built or are in the process of being completed.
That average is more than eight Kingdom Halls being built every day, which is truly amazing.
Also, over 50 remote translation office facilities have been completed or are now in the process of being built.
Does all of this mean, though, that we have accomplished all of our goals?
You remember that in our May program, we mentioned the willing generosity of the Israelites in the wilderness when they were asked to contribute to the fabrication and construction of the tabernacle for true worship.
You recall that in Exodus 35, it says that everyone whose heart impelled Him and everyone whose spirit incited Him came and brought their contribution for Jehovah.
And in chapter 36 verse 7, it says, the goods were enough for all the work to be done and more than enough.
When we ask, were the Israelites more appreciative and responsive than we are today? No! As we said earlier, you are to be commended for your immediate generous response to the May broadcast.
You responded similar to the Israelites in Moses' time.
The difference, however, between the Israelites giving an ours today is that they only had one project to construct.
When it was completed, that was all it was needed. However, as you know, we have thousands of projects that need our continued support.
It is not just a two-month undertaking. In fact, as announced at the annual meeting this past October, the governing body is so serious about advancing Kingdom interest in the field that we have re-analyzed ways we can cut back at all the branches, so as to redirect more funds to the field.
For example, many long-standing Bethel routines and services are being reduced or eliminated. This will result in fewer members of the Bethel family being required.
The governing body is absolutely confident, completely confident, that this initiative and other cost-saving initiatives that we are taking coupled with your continued support will enable us to care for all the needs in the field.
On behalf of the governing body, I would like to borrow the inspired words of 2 Thessalonians, chapter 1, verses 3 and 4.
We express the words of Paul to you dear brothers and sisters.
We are obligated always to give thanks to God for you, brothers. This is fitting because your faith is growing exceedingly, and the love of each and every one of you is increasing toward one another.
As a result, we ourselves take pride in you among the congregations of God because of your endurance and faith.
Again, we sincerely thank you for your generous support of Jehovah's great work in these exciting last days.